So we installed vue resource, we set it up to be usable though we don't use it yet.
Now in order to be able to use it, we also need some server where we can send our data to right because
we want to reach out to the web, so we probably need some server on the web where we can store our data
or we can fetch data.
Now the bad thing is setting up such a server on our own is a little bit too much work for this course,
the great thing is there are services we can easily leverage and I'll use firebase for this.
So you may simply google for firebase again and then it's firebase.google.com and this is a service by Google
which you may test freely, check out their official pages to learn more, how long it is free and what
it will cost you something in the end
but the things we're going to do here are free and then you basically need to well sign up or get to
your console if you already are signed up and I will quickly do this and then meet you in this firebase console
where you are able to create new projects.
So I'm now in the firebase console and here, you can create new firebase projects,
now what is firebase to begin with?
Firebase is something or a service you can use as the backend for your native app, for your web app,
it has database functionalities,
it has authentication functionalities and much more.
Definitely check out the official docs to learn how it works, what it has, what it costs and so on,
this is no firebase tutorial,
I'm only using it as it is a simple backend for our http tests here.
So to create such a backend, I'll click on Create project and then I'll give it any name of well my or your
choice,
pick your country and create the project.
This will once it is created take you to your project dashboard and on this dashboard, you got a lot
of different things like you can set up storage for files and other things.
Now for showing how http works, I will only use the database because I only want to store data in
the database here.
Now the first important thing you got to do for the testing here, only for the testing is that on the
rules in the database section, you should set read and write both to true so that everyone is able
to read and write so that we don't have to authenticate ourselves, publish this and then you should
be able to access this without problems.
Now keep in mind, these are not the settings you want to have in a production app
and again, you definitely need to dive into the documentation if you want to use firebase for a production
app,
this is only for testing.
Now this will allow us to write to this database which already looks like a bit like Mongo database
so like Mongo DB for example, where we have key value pairs, though right now it is empty.
This here is going to be the URL we need to access it though
and in order to be able to access it, I will go back to my app.vue file and the first thing I want
to do is I want to be able to store some data there,
so we're going to set this up now and in the next video, then we'll actually send this request. So to store
it, I'll quickly set up a div with a class, form group, so this bootstrap class, there I will have a label
where i say user name and then thereafter my input with class form control which is of type
text where I want to enter my user name and then I'm simply going to copy these
ones here to also set up something for let's say, your email address, type text as well and then a
button type, button button primary where I say submit and then I'll go down to my vue object here or
to my vue instance, set up my data
I want to use and in is data here,
I want to have the same two fields, I want to have a username and email though I will group it together
in a user object,
so here I will have user name, empty at the beginning and email, empty at the beginning and then we learned
how to bind this with v-model where I will now bind the user.username and on my email, I will
bind the user.email of course.
Now with that, I'm able to submit some data and to well send it, well almost though, I of course also need
to set up my methods where I will say submit and here for now, I'll simply log it to the console,
log my user here and then add a click listener on the button here and execute submit.
Now let's see this in the running application just to see if everything works before then in the next
module,
I will actually use this to send some data. And yeah, this does not work because there should be this user
and then if I head over to the application and I enter some data here, test@test.com and open
up the console, we see now that the user here gets printed with email and user name fields. The getter and setter
here is just added by vuejs to be able to listen to changes to that
but here we see the fields we set up with the values we entered.
So this looks good, with that
we set up our application
we set up firebase,
let's now use all the things we set up here to actually send a request.